
The plugin registry
The plugin registry is the supported catalog for sandboxed plugins. Anyone can browse published plugins at 
plugins.emdashcms.com
. Administrators can review and install them from the 
Registry
 section of the EmDash admin panel.
EmDash uses the hosted registry at 
https://registry.emdashcms.com
 by default when the site has an enabled plugin sandbox.
Plugin public names
Section titled “Plugin public names”
Every registry plugin has a public name made from its publisher’s current Atmosphere account handle and its package slug. For example, a package with the slug 
my-gallery
 published by 
example.com
 appears as 
@example.com/my-gallery
.
The public name appears in registry results and under 
Plugins
 after installation. Select it to open the plugin detail page, or paste the complete name into registry search to find that exact package. EmDash resolves the handle to the publisher’s stable account identifier before loading the package.
If the handle conclusively stops resolving back to the publisher, EmDash displays 
INVALID HANDLE
 and prevents new installation from the package detail page. Existing installations remain in their current state so an identity lookup cannot disable a running site. Review the installed plugin and contact its publisher before updating it. A temporary lookup failure displays the stable publisher identifier with 
Handle unavailable
 instead of reporting an invalid handle.
Enable registry installs
Section titled “Enable registry installs”
To install plugins from the registry, configure storage and an available sandbox runner. Complete the platform-specific 
plugin sandbox setup
 first.
Add the Cloudflare sandbox runner to the 
emdash()
 configuration in 
astro.config.mjs
:
astro.config.mjs
import
 { defineConfig } 
from
"
astro/config
"
;
import
 { sandbox } 
from
"
@emdash-cms/cloudflare
"
;
import
 emdash 
from
"
emdash/astro
"
;
export
default
defineConfig
({
integrations: [
emdash
({
sandboxRunner: 
sandbox
(),
}),
],
});
EmDash displays the 
Registry
 catalog after the sandbox runner is configured. See the 
registry
 configuration reference
 to select a different aggregator, set registry policy, or disable discovery.
Install a registry plugin
Section titled “Install a registry plugin”
Open 
Registry
 in the admin panel.
Search by title, description, or a complete public name such as 
@example.com/my-gallery
, then open the plugin’s detail page.
Select a release and review its publisher, metadata, requested permissions, and verification status.
Select 
Install
.
Review the verification status and permissions in the consent dialog, then confirm.
Before showing the consent dialog, EmDash checks the downloaded bundle’s checksum, name, version, and permissions. If the publisher requires build provenance, EmDash verifies that evidence too. Installation stops if a check fails. The consent dialog shows the verification status and exact permissions before installation.
Registry updates repeat these checks. An update waits for confirmation when it adds permissions or MCP tools, or changes a route from authenticated to public. Uninstalling removes the bundle and preserves plugin storage data unless you select 
Also delete plugin storage data
. See 
Installing plugins
 for the shared update and uninstall steps.
Related pages
Section titled “Related pages”
Querying the registry
 documents the experimental read-only discovery client.
Bundling and publishing
 covers publishing a sandboxed plugin.
Capabilities and security
 describes the sandbox permission model.
Edit page
Previous
Installing Plugins
Next
Migrate from Marketplace

